[SOURCE: SEC 10-K Item 1A — Risk Factors (climate-relevant excerpts)]

Includes unrealized gains and losses resulting from changes in the fair value of certain power contracts that qualify as derivative instruments. See “Derivative Instruments” below for the recognition criteria of unrealized gains and losses on commodity derivative instruments. See “Energy Expenses” below for additional information on unrealized gains and losses of derivative instruments presented as “Energy Expenses” on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
See Note 3 for additional information on revenue.
Energy Expenses.

Energy expenses on the Consolidated Statements of Operations are primarily comprised of items presented as: (i) “Fuel and energy purchases;” (ii) “Nuclear fuel amortization;” and (iii) “Unrealized gain (loss) on derivative instruments” for certain commodity purchase contracts.
Fuel and energy purchases.
 Primarily includes: (i) fuel costs; (ii) environmental product costs; and (iii) realized gain (loss) on commodity derivative instruments. 
Fuel costs include: (i) the costs incurred by Talen-owned generation facilities for the conversion of natural gas, coal, and (or) oil products to electricity, and (ii) the periodic amortization (through contract expiry) of the acquisition date fair value of acquired executory fuel supply contracts. Fuel for electric generation from natural gas purchases are recognized at the agreed price for natural gas delivered to the applicable generation facility over a contractually agreed period of time. Fuel for electric generation from coal and oil product inventories are recognized at the applicable weighted average inventory cost of volumes consumed. 
60
Item 8. Table of Contents
Environmental product costs primarily include RGGIs and other emission product compliance costs that are mandated by certain states. The estimated cost of compliance is accrued at the time an obligation under the applicable terms of each state's environmental compliance program arises. 
Realized gains and losses on commodity derivative instruments primarily include the settlements of financial and physical fuel contracts utilized for the Company’s commercial risk management objectives. Realized settlements of these derivative instruments are recognized and presented net within “Fuel and energy purchases” on the Consolidated Statements of Operations based on the delivery period of the underlying contract at contractually agreed prices. See “Operating Revenues and Revenue Recognition” above for additional information on realized gains and losses on derivative instruments presented as “Energy and other revenues” on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
Nuclear fuel amortization.
 Nuclear fuel-related costs, including procurement of uranium, conversion, enrichment, fabrication and assemblies, are capitalized and presented as “Property, plant and equipment, net” on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and presented as a cash outflow within the investing activities section on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. Such costs are amortized as the fuel is consumed using the units-of-production method and presented as “Nuclear fuel amortization” on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
Unrealized gain (loss) on derivative instruments.

Includes unrealized gains and losses resulting from changes in the fair value of certain fuel contracts and environmental product contracts that qualify as derivative instruments. See “Derivative Instruments” below for the recognition criteria of unrealized gains and losses on commodity derivative instruments. See “Operating Revenues and Revenue Recognition” above for additional information on unrealized gains and losses of derivative instruments presented as “Operating Revenues” on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
Derivative Instruments.
 The fair value of derivative contracts required to be measured at fair value are presented as “Derivative instruments” within assets or liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The primary type of derivative instruments utilized are commodity derivatives. Commodity derivative contracts are valued using inputs and assumptions such as contractual volumes, delivery location, forward commodity prices, commodity price volatility, discount rates, and credit worthiness of counterparties. For derivatives that trade in liquid markets, such as generic forwards, swaps, and options, the inputs and assumptions are generally observable.
In most instances, master netting agreements govern derivative transactions between parties and contain certain provisions for setoff rights. The fair value of derivative instruments is presented net of setoff rights and cash collateral deposits. The fair value of commercial contracts that are not subject to netting and (or) collateral provisions is presented gross. Prior to Emergence, the fair value of derivative instruments presented on the Consolidated Balance Sheets was presented gross of setoff rights and cash collateral deposits exchanged between parties under such arrangements. 
Unrealized gains or losses associated with a derivative instrument that economically hedges certain risks but where qualified cash flow hedge accounting is not elected or not met are presented on the Consolidated Statements of Operations in the period when such gains or losses arise. As there are no derivatives where qualified hedge accounting has been elected, changes in the fair value of commodity derivatives are presented as “Unrealized gain (loss) on derivative instruments,” as a component of either “Operating Revenues” or “Energy Expenses” on the Consolidated Statements of Operations in a manner consistent with the presentation of net realized gains and losses. See “Operating Revenues” and “Energy Expenses” above for a discussion of net realized gains and losses on commodity derivatives. The cumulative net gains or losses for interest rate contracts are presented as “Interest expense and other finance charge
s
” on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
See Notes 2 and 11 for additional information on the presentation of derivative contracts and fair value measurements, respectively.
Operation, Maintenance and Development.

2026
2027
2028 
(a)
2029 
(a)
2030 
(a)
Future performance obligations
$
963

__________________
(a)
As PJM BRAs have not yet occurred for periods after the 2027/2028 PJM Capacity Year, there are no future performance obligations after May 31, 2028.
Brandon Shores and H.A. Wagner RMR Agreements
In May 2025, the FERC approved each of the Brandon Shores and H.A. Wagner RMR agreements, under which: (i) Talen will operate the generation facilities in accordance with such arrangements from June 1, 2025 through May 31, 2029, or until such time as the necessary third-party transmission upgrades are placed into service; (ii) Brandon Shores will earn annual fixed-cost payments of $
145
 million ($
312
/MWd), inclusive of a $
5
 million per year unit performance “hold back;” (iii) H.A. Wagner will earn annual fixed-cost payments of $
35
 million ($
137
/MWd), inclusive of a $
2.5
 million per year unit performance “hold back;” and (iv) each facility will receive separate reimbursement for variable costs and approved project investments. In August 2025, the Maryland Office of People’s Counsel filed an appeal of the FERC’s order approving the Brandon Shores and H.A. Wagner RMR agreements. Talen has intervened in that proceeding and plans to participate.
Additionally, H.A. Wagner Unit 4 is subject to certain emission restrictions associated with its air permits that limit the Unit’s annual runtime. In October 2025, the DOE granted PJM’s request, pursuant to Section 202(c) of the Federal Power Act, to renew the DOE’s July order, which allowed Unit 4 to exceed its air permit emission limits for the remainder of the calendar year when Unit 4 was needed to maintain grid reliability. Such order is subject to extension at the request of PJM and at the discretion of the DOE.

4.     Income Taxes
The components of “Income tax benefit (expense)” for the periods were:
Successor
Predecessor
Year Ended December 31, 2025
Year Ended December 31, 2024
May 18 through December 31, 2023
January 1 through May 17, 2023
Federal
$
54

The disaggregation of ARO carrying values on the Consolidated Balance Sheets was:
Successor
December 31,
2025
December 31,
2024
Nuclear 
(a)
$
272

__________________
(a)
Obligations are expected to be settled with available funds in the NDT at the time of decommissioning. See Note 6 for additional information on the NDT.
(b)
Certain obligations are: (i) partially supported by surety bonds, some of which have been collateralized with LCs; or (ii) partially prefunded under phased installment agreements.
Nuclear AROs
Each joint owner of Susquehanna is obligated to fund their proportionate share of Susquehanna's ARO. Talen’s proportionate share of decommissioning activities will be funded from the NDT when decommissioning commences in connection with the expiration of Susquehanna’s licenses. The licenses for Susquehanna Unit 1 and Unit 2 expire in 2042 and 2044, respectively, and can be extended subject to NRC approval. The NRC has jurisdiction over the decommissioning of nuclear power generation facilities and requires minimum decommissioning funding based upon a formula. Under the most recent calculation in 2024, the NDT exceeds the NRC's minimum funding requirements. Each joint owner of Susquehanna is obligated to fund their proportionate decommissioning costs if their respective nuclear decommissioning trusts do not contain sufficient funds. We believe the NDT will be adequate to fund the Company’s proportionate share of decommissioning costs. As of December 31, 2025 (Successor), the fair value of the NDT was $
1.9
 billion and the carrying value the Company’s proportionate share of the Susquehanna ARO, which is discounted under a present value technique, was $
272
 million. See Note 1 for additional information on the measurement of AROs.
76
Item 8. Table of Contents
Non-nuclear AROs
Non-nuclear AROs are primarily comprised of remediation activities associated with legacy coal-fired generation facilities, particularly Colstrip, Brunner Island, and Montour and includes activities, among others, such as remediation of coal piles, wastewater basins, and ash impoundments and structure removal.
Talen Montana.
 Talen Montana’s has significant AROs associated with its proportionate share of remediation, closure and decommissioning costs for coal ash impoundments at Colstrip. Due to the expected timing and scope of anticipated remediation activities, actual cash expenditures associated with these obligations are expected to be material over the next several years and then at a reduced spending level for several decades. Talen Montana, along with the other co-owners of Colstrip, periodically work with the MDEQ to update the scope of required remediation, the scope of closure and decommissioning activities, and the associated estimate of the costs, including the amount of necessary financial assurance necessary to backstop these obligations. Talen Montana's decommissioning and environmental remediation is expected to be paid by funds available to Talen Montana at the time of decommissioning.
Future adjustments may be required to the Talen Montana ARO estimates due to the ongoing remediation requirements under MDEQ obligations and the EPA CCR Rule. See Note 9 for information on Talen Montana’s requirement to provide financial assurance for certain environmental decommissioning and remediation liabilities related to Colstrip. Talen Montana's estimate of its proportionate share of the AROs, discounted using a credit adjusted risk-free rate, was $
90
 million and $
98
 million as of December 31, 2025 (Successor) and 2024 (Successor), respectively.
Conditional AROs
. As of December 31, 2025 (Successor), the fair values of certain AROs as a result of the EPA CCR Rule cannot be determined. See Note 9 for additional information on the EPA CCR Rule and the regulatory timeline that is expected to determine the associated scope of work.
Certain subsidiaries of the Company have legal retirement obligations associated with the removal, disposal, and (or) monitoring of asbestos-containing material at certain generation facilities. Given that the ultimate volume of asbestos-containing material is not yet known, the fair value of these obligations cannot be reasonably estimated. These obligations will be recognized upon a change in economic events or other circumstances which enables the fair value to be estimable.
Accrued Environmental Costs
Under the Pennsylvania Clean Streams Law, a Talen subsidiary is obligated to remediate acid mine drainage at a former mine site and may be required to take additional steps to prevent acid mine drainage at this site. Liabilities related to the remediation were $
20
 million and $
21
 million as of December 31, 2025 (Successor) and 2024 (Successor), respectively, and were presented as “
Other current liabilities
” and “Asset retirement obligations and accrued environmental costs” on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Such liabilities were discounted based on a credit adjusted risk-free rate that was in existence at the time of initial liability recognition of 
8.4
%. The undiscounted amount of the liabilities was $
30
 million and $
32
 million as of December 31, 2025 (Successor) and 2024 (Successor), respectively.
9.   Commitments and Contingencies
Legal, Regulatory, and Environmental Matters
We are regularly subject to various legal, regulatory, and environmental matters in connection with our business. While we believe we have meritorious positions and will continue to vigorously defend our positions in these matters, we may not be successful in our efforts, and we cannot predict the effect of an adverse outcome of any such matter. If an unfavorable outcome is probable and can be reasonably estimated, a liability is recognized. In the event of an unfavorable outcome, the liability may be in excess of amounts currently accrued. Because of the inherently unpredictable nature of legal, regulatory, and environmental matters and the wide range of potential outcomes for any such matter, no estimate of the possible losses in excess of amounts accrued, if any, can be made at this time regarding any matter specifically described below. As a result, additional losses actually incurred in excess of amounts accrued could be substantial. Unless otherwise disclosed below, we are unable to predict the outcome of any matter discussed below or reasonably estimate the amount of any associated costs and (or) potential liabilities. Additionally, it is possible that the outcome of any such matter, including market modifications, could materially impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and (or) liquidity.
Legal Matters
We are involved in various legal and administrative proceedings, investigations, claims, and litigation from time to time in the course of our business. Such matters may include, but are not limited to, those relating to employment and benefits, commercial disputes, personal injury, property damage, regulatory matters, environmental matters, and various other claims for injuries and (or) damages. While we believe we have meritorious positions and will continue to appropriately respond to all legal matters, because of the inherently unpredictable nature of legal proceedings, there is a wide range of potential outcomes for any such matter.
77
Item 8. Table of Contents
Brunner Island CCR Litigation. 
In April 2025, the Center for Biological Diversity (the “CBD”) filed a citizen suit in the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Pennsylvania alleging that the Company and its subsidiary, Brunner Island, LLC, have failed to comply with groundwater monitoring and corrective action requirements at Brunner Island’s Ash Basin 5 and have therefore violated the RCRA and the EPA CCR Rule. The complaint seeks declaratory and injunctive relief. Talen believes the alleged claims are without merit and that the CBD’s factual and legal conclusions are incorrect. Talen filed a motion to dismiss the lawsuit which was followed by an amicus brief from the Utility Solid Waste Activities Group in support of Talen’s motion; briefing on the motion to dismiss was completed on June 30, 2025. No assurance can be provided as to the outcome of the litigation or its impacts on Talen’s operations.
ERCOT Weather Event (Winter Storm Uri) Lawsuits.
 In connection with the ERCOT Sale, the Company retained certain potential liabilities relating to claims filed from 2021 onward against its former Texas subsidiaries seeking unspecified damages for alleged losses caused by the defendants’ failure to provide sufficient power to the grid during Winter Storm Uri. The claims also allege similar liability against numerous other ERCOT power market participants. In December 2023, 
five
 multi-district litigation (“MDL”) bellwether lawsuits, which were selected by the MDL court as representative of all 
58
 cases filed in the Uri litigation, were dismissed by the MDL court, a ruling subsequently upheld by the Texas First Court of Appeals. In January and February 2025, the plaintiffs (in 
two
 groups) filed for relief in the Texas Supreme Court, seeking to overturn the lower courts. In July 2025, the Texas Supreme Court ordered merits briefing by the parties, which has since concluded. If the Court of Appeals decision is affirmed by the Texas Supreme Court, Talen expects the dismissal ruling to apply broadly to all Uri cases against Talen’s former subsidiaries. Pursuant to the Plan of Reorganization, Talen’s maximum potential damages on prepetition Uri claims are expressly limited to payments from Talen’s insurers. However, claims filed after Talen’s restructuring by plaintiffs who did not receive effective notice of the restructuring, if any, may not be subject to the limitations in the Plan of Reorganization. Talen cannot predict the effect of an adverse outcome for any such claims.
Spent Nuclear Fuel Litigation.
 Federal law requires the U.S. government to provide for the permanent disposal of commercial spent nuclear fuel (“SNF”), but the government has not yet done so. Until May 2014, the DOE required nuclear generation facility operators to contribute to a fund intended to pay for the transportation and disposal of SNF, and Talen cannot predict if or when the government will reinstate any such fee in the future. In May 2023, an existing settlement agreement between Susquehanna and the U.S. government was extended through the end of 2025. The settlement agreement requires the government to reimburse Susquehanna for certain SNF storage costs through 2025 and requires Susquehanna to waive certain claims against the government relating to temporary SNF storage. In July 2025, the Company reached an agreement with the DOE for a reimbursement 
of 
$
14
 million
 (reflecting Talen’s 
90
% share) 
related to the 2023-2024 period and received the reimbursement in August 2025.
Regulatory Matters
We are subject to regulation by federal and state agencies and other bodies that exercise regulatory authority in the various regions where we conduct business, including but not limited to the FERC; the DOE; the NRC; NERC; the Federal Communications Commission; and state public utility commissions. In addition, the RTOs and ISOs in the regions in which we conduct business inherently have complex rules that are intended to balance the interests of market stakeholders. Proposed market structure modifications may lead to disputes among stakeholders that might not be resolved for a period of time as a result of regulatory and (or) legal proceedings. Accordingly, we are subject to uncertainty with respect to: (i) new or amended regulations issued by regulatory agencies; and (ii) changes in market design, tariff structure, capacity auctions, and (or) pricing rules.
PJM Capacity Market Reform.
 In June 2023, the FERC accepted a request by PJM to delay certain PJM Base Residual Auctions in order for PJM to propose market reforms. PJM filed its market reform proposals with the FERC in October 2023. In early 2024, the FERC accepted portions of PJM’s proposed market changes and PJM scheduled certain PJM BRAs on a delayed basis. In September 2024, the Sierra Club and other organizations filed a complaint at the FERC challenging PJM’s rules establishing must-offer exceptions for PJM BRA participation by RMR resources. In October 2024, PJM announced it had concerns about the FERC considering the Sierra Club’s complaints about RMR resources in isolation and therefore intended to file a Section 205 proceeding under the Federal Power Act seeking the FERC’s approval of to-be-determined market reforms, including but not limited to potential revisions to the treatm
ent of RMR resources. As a result, in October 2024, PJM formally requested, which the FERC approved, 
six-month
 delays to the scheduled PJM BRAs for the 2028/2029, and 2029/2030 PJM Capacity Years to June 2026, and December 2026, respectively. Currently, the auction for the 2030/2031 PJM Capacity Year in May 2027 is scheduled on a non-delayed basis. Talen can provide no assurance that these or any scheduled PJM BRAs will be held on such dates or at all.
A series of filings aimed at reforming the PJM capacity market were filed at the FERC. In November 2024, the Joint Consumer Advocates, comprised of consumer advocacy groups and government entities from Illinois, Maryland, New Jersey, Ohio, and the District of Columbia filed a complaint against PJM asking the FERC to find that PJM’s existing capacity market rules are unjust and unreasonable and to issue an order requiring certain short-term and longer-term changes to PJM’s capacity market rules.
78
Item 8. Table of Contents
In response, PJM made 
two
 FERC filings in December 2024 to address what they perceive as capacity market design issues (the “PJM Capacity Market 205 Proceeding”). PJM proposed to retain the dual fuel combustion turbine as the reference resource and to implement a uniform non-performance charge throughout the RTO for the 2026/2027 and 2027/2028 PJM Capacity Years, and to administratively include RMR units that meet certain criteria as price takers in the capacity auctions for the next 
two
 delivery years and will not assess penalties or pay bonuses to these RMR units. PJM’s filing also clarifies that being excused from being required to offer into the capacity market is no defense to exercising market power by electing not to offer. Further, PJM proposed to make changes to the capacity market mitigation rules. This proposal will eliminate the must-offer exception for intermittent and limited duration resources that are eligible to participate in the capacity market and will allow market sellers to incorporate a risk component in their capacity market offers. In February 2025, the FERC accepted PJM’s proposals in the PJM Capacity Market 205 Proceeding and as a result, the changes to the PJM BRA parameters described above as part of that proceeding were adopted for the 2026/2027 and 2027/2028 PJM Capacity Years.
In December 2024, the Pennsylvania Governor filed a complaint against PJM at the FERC to address alleged elevated costs to consumers from the PJM capacity market in the 2026/2027 and 2027/2028 PJM Capacity Years and proposed, among other things, a lower capacity price cap. As a result of a subsequent agreement between the State of Pennsylvania and PJM that resolved the Governor’s complaint, the Governor withdrew the complaint in February 2025. In April 2025, the FERC accepted PJM’s proposals reflecting its agreement with the Com
monwealth of Pennsylvania. As a result, the PJM BRA imposed a price collar with an approximate minimum and maximum price of $
175
/MWd and $
325
/MWd, respectively, which was effective for the 2026/2027 PJM BRA in July 2025 and for the 2027/2028 PJM BRA in December 2025. It is uncertain whether price collars will be in effect for future PJM BRAs.
In February 2025, the FERC initiated a technical conference docket to consider broad resource adequacy issues across all RTOs, with the initial proceedings taking place in June 2025. The Company has intervened in the new technical conference docket and is closely monitoring those proceedings.
Interconnection of Large Loads. 
In October 2025, DOE directed the FERC to consider reforms to expedite and facilitate how large loads interconnect to the interstate transmission system. DOE stated that the Federal Power Act permits the FERC to exert jurisdiction over load interconnections even though it has not historically done so. DOE provided a draft advance notice of proposed rulemaking (“ANOPR”) and directed the FERC to initiate rulemaking procedures. In November 2025, the FERC requested public comment on the ANOPR, and the Company provided comments. DOE directed the FERC to take final action by the end of April 2026.
In August 2025, PJM began an accelerated process known as a Critical Issue Fast Path (“CIFP”) process with stakeholders to address how to integrate large load customers quickly and reliably. The CIFP stakeholders represented a wide range of views about resource allocations, costs, and how the addition of large loads like data centers to PJM should be managed in the context of the capacity market. The Company was an active participant in the CIFP process and submitted a joint proposal amongst itself, Constellation, Calpine, Amazon, Microsoft, and Google representing the group’s collective views on the best approach to large load additions. Neither the joint proposal nor any of the other proposals submitted received broad stakeholder support during voting. Nevertheless, PJM had planned to make a filing at the FERC in January 2026 containing PJM’s ultimate proposal to be in place for the 2028/2029 PJM BRA.
In December 2025, however, the FERC issued an order in a show cause proceeding on large loads co-located with generation. The FERC directed PJM to submit an informational report containing, among other items, all of the CIFP proposals. The FERC also found that the PJM tariff was unjust and unreasonable as to the interconnection of co-located loads. The FERC requested tariff revisions be submitted over the next 30-60 days and established a hearing schedule, which begins in February 2026, to establish rates, terms, and conditions of several new transmission services.
In January 2026, the National Energy Dominance Council (“NEDC”) and the Governors from each of the 
13
 states in PJM issued a “Statement of Principles” for PJM. Among other things, the statement calls for PJM to conduct a reliability backstop auction for new baseload capacity with 
15-year
 contracts by September 2026. It also urges PJM to extend the existing price collar for the next 
two
 BRAs. Hours after the NEDC/Governors’ principles were released, the PJM Board of Managers issued a Board Decisional Letter — the final step in the Large Load Addition CIFP process. The Board’s Decisional Letter adopted specific elements of various proposals, including load forecasting improvements, voluntary bring your own generation paired with an expedited interconnection track, a holistic review in the coming year of investment incentives in PJM’s markets, and immediate initiation of a reliability backstop procurement. PJM also requested feedback on an extension of the price collar for the next two BRAs.
79
Item 8. Table of Contents
Environmental Matters
Extensive federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations are applicable to our business, including those related to air emissions, water discharges, hazardous substances, and solid waste management. From time to time, in the ordinary course of our business, Talen may be: (i) subject to environmental remediation work at its facilities; (ii) involved in other environmental matters; or (iii) become subject to other, new or revised environmental statutes, regulations, or requirements. It may be necessary for us to modify, curtail, replace, or cease operation of certain facilities or performance of certain operations to comply with statutes, regulations, and other requirements imposed by regulatory bodies, courts, or environmental groups. We may incur significant costs to comply with these requirements, including increased capital expenditures or operation and maintenance expenses, monetary fines, remediation costs, penalties, or other restrictions. Legal challenges to environmental rules or permits add to the uncertainty of estimating future compliance costs. In addition, in January 2025, President Trump issued executive orders directing the heads of all federal agencies to identify and begin the processes to suspend, revise, or rescind all agency actions, including existing regulations, that are unduly burdensome on the identification, development, or use of domestic energy resources. Consequently, in March 2025, the EPA announced that it will reconsider and potentially roll back 31 regulations and policies, many of which directly impact Talen, and various executive actions were taken in April 2025 to further encourage deregulation. The EPA’s reconsiderations for many of these regulations and policies remain ongoing, and certain executive orders have subsequently been challenged by states and individual plaintiffs. Future provisions, implementation, and enforcement of these executive actions and the environmental rules continue to be uncertain. Further, costs may increase significantly if the requirements or scope of environmental laws or regulations, or similar rules, are expanded or changed in other ways.
EPA CSAPR and Nitrogen Oxides (“NOx”) Requirements.
 Coal-fired generation facilities, including those in which Talen has ownership, have been the subject of EPA regulations and efforts by certain states and other parties to strengthen applicable NOx emission limits under the Clean Air Act. In 2015, the EPA revised the 8-hour ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standards for ground-level ozone to 70 parts per billion (the “EPA 2015 Ozone Standard”). This action triggered updates to state-specific compliance requirements as well as provisions that are intended to limit cross-state emissions. In June 2023, the EPA published a rule in connection with the EPA 2015 Ozone Standard updating the EPA CSAPR ozone season NOx allowance trading program for 2023 and beyond (the “Good Neighbor Plan”). Talen’s facilities in Maryland, Pennsylvania, and New Jersey were subject to the new rule; however, the entire rule was challenged by multiple parties, and subsequently the Good Neighbor Plan was stayed in its entirety by the U.S. Supreme Court in June 2024 pending a complete review of the rule by the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals. In November 2024, the EPA issued an interim final rule indicating it plans to provide NOx allocations and budgets from the previously applicable and less restrictive Revised CSAPR Update Rule until the Good Neighbor Plan matter is resolved.
 After initially denying the EPA’s request in February 2025, the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals in April 2025, granted the EPA’s motion requesting the Good Neighbor Plan litigation be held in abeyance pending the EPA’s review of the stayed rule and further orders by the court. As a result, future implementation and enforcement of the Good Neighbor Plan has continued to be uncertain.
In January 2026, the EPA proposed Phase 1 of its reconsideration of the Good Neighbor Plan. In its proposal, the EPA proposes to approve state implementation plan submissions governing interstate emissions from eight states (Alabama, Arizona, Kentucky, Minnesota, Mississippi, Nevada, New Mexico, and Tennessee). If finalized, these states would no longer be subject to Good Neighbor Plan requirements. Although Talen does not operate in any of the states identified in the proposed rule, EPA in its proposal states that it intends to undertake a separate action to address interstate transport obligations for the remaining states covered under the Good Neighbor Plan.
EPA MATS Rule.
 In May 2024, the EPA published a rule that requires coal-fired generation facilities to reduce particulate matter emissions by the middle of 2027 (or 2028, if an extension is approved) (the “2024 EPA MATS Rule”). In February 2026, however, the EPA issued a subsequent final rule repealing the lower particulate matter standards set in the 2024 amendments and reverting to particulate matter standards promulgated in the 2012 EPA MATS Rule (the “MATS Repeal Rule”). Challenges to the 2024 EPA MATS Rule were filed in the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals, including by Talen and 
23
 states. The appeal on the merits of the 2024 rule remains pending in the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals, but the litigation has been held in abeyance since February 2025, while the EPA reconsidered the rule. As a result of the EPA’s MATS Repeal Rule, the litigation over the 2024 EPA MATS Rule will likely be deemed moot. However, challenges to the MATS Repeal Rule are expected. No assurance can be provided as to whether the MATS Repeal Rule will survive judicial challenge and when such challenges will be resolved. Colstrip was not expected to meet the 2024 particulate matter standard without substantial upgrades to its control equipment. As a result, if the MATS Repeal Rule is vacated by a court or reconsidered by the EPA in the future, Talen Montana and the other Colstrip co-owners will face the decision either to invest in new cost-prohibitive control equipment or retire the Colstrip facility. Such a decision must be evaluated in conjunction with other compliance requirements.
80
Item 8. Table of Contents
In March 2025, the EPA formally announced that it was reconsidering the 2024 EPA MATS Rule as part of its deregulation agenda. Concurrently, the Trump administration announced it was considering a two-year exemption from compliance obligations via Section 112(i)(4) of the Clean Air Act for affected power plants while the EPA reconsidered the rule. Talen applied for the exemption, which was granted in April 2025. This authorization affords more time for the Colstrip owners to consider the operational future of Colstrip. Environmental groups filed separate lawsuits in the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals and the U.S. District Court for D.C., challenging the presidential exemptions issued to Colstrip and other fossil fuel-fired power plants. On August 5, 2025, the EPA filed a motion in each case requesting the courts hold the litigation in abeyance for six months pending the EPA’s efforts to repeal the 2024 EPA MATS Rule. Talen filed motions to intervene in both cases on August 8, 2025. On September 3, 2025, the U.S. District Court for D.C. granted the EPA’s motion to hold the case in abeyance for six months and also granted Talen’s motion to intervene. Plaintiffs filed a motion asking the court to reconsider its decision to hold the case in abeyance. The U.S. District Court for D.C. denied that motion in November 2025. The D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals granted the EPA’s motion for an abeyance and Talen’s motion to intervene in October 2025. The litigation may be deemed moot as a result of the EPA’s MATS Repeal Rule, but no assurance can be provided as to the outcome of this litigation at this time. The Company could be forced to make operating decisions about the future of Colstrip before clarity is obtained on legal challenges regarding the MATS Repeal Rule and the presidential exemption litigation.
EPA GHG Rule.
 In May 2024, the EPA published a rule that establishes carbon dioxide limits for new electric generating units (“EGUs”) and greenhouse gas (“GHG”) guidelines for certain existing EGUs. Under the guidelines, if existing coal-fired EGUs operate beyond 2031, GHG reductions, such as those achieved by the addition of carbon capture and sequestration (“CCS”), are required to be implemented by the end of 2031. Colstrip is not expected to meet the new rules without substantial technology upgrades and pipeline infrastructure build-out. As a result, Talen Montana and the other Colstrip co-owners face the decision either to invest in new cost-prohibitive controls (e.g., CCS technology) or retire the Colstrip facility by the end of 2031. Such a decision must be evaluated in conjunction with compliance requirements under the May 2024 EPA MATS Rule. Petitions have been filed in the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals, including by coalitions representing 
27
 states and an ad hoc coalition of power producers of which Talen is a member, requesting a review of the EPA GHG Rule. Stay motions were denied by the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals in July 2024 and the U.S. Supreme Court in October 2024. Appeals of the EPA GHG Rule remain pending in the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals.
The D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals has held the litigation in abeyance since February 2025 to allow the EPA to reconsider the rule. No assurance can be provided as to when the challenges to the EPA GHG Rule will be resolved or whether such challenges will be resolved in the Company’s favor. In June 2025, the EPA released a proposed rule to repeal all GHG emission standards for fossil fuel-fired power plants. As an alternative, the EPA is proposing a narrow repeal of GHG standards, which would eliminate all emissions guidelines and standards for existing power plants and the Phase 2 GHG emissions standards that would apply to new combustion turbines beginning in 2032. Under the alternative proposal, Phase 1 GHG emissions standards applicable to new and reconstructed baseload fossil fuel-fired stationary combustion turbines would be retained. The public comment period on the proposal expired on August 7, 2025. No assurance can be provided as to whether the rule will be finalized and whether a final rule will survive judicial challenge. The EPA has also in the past stated its intent to develop GHG regulations for existing natural gas combustion turbines; however, no rule has been proposed, and no recent statements have been made. Operating decisions about the future of Colstrip are highly dependent on the fate of the EPA GHG Rule as well as the EPA MATS Rule. Given the legal and regulatory uncertainties with both rules, it is possible the Company will be required to make decisions about Colstrip’s future before it has clarity about the outcome of litigation and (or) the EPA’s regulations.
GHG Endangerment Finding. 
In February 2026, the EPA issued a final rule rescinding its 2009 finding that GHG emissions endanger public health and welfare and repealing all GHG emissions standards for light-, medium-, and heavy-duty vehicles and engines. The EPA made the 2009 endangerment finding in order to promulgate GHG emission standards for new motor vehicles under Section 202(a) of the Clean Air Act and has subsequently relied on this finding as a basis to regulate other sources of GHGs. In the final rule, EPA states it must rescind the endangerment finding because it lacks the statutory authority to regulate GHG emissions from vehicles in response to global climate changes concerns. The EPA does not explicitly state how the rescission impacts its authority to regulate GHG emissions from stationary sources. However, the final rule acknowledges that EPA has relied on the endangerment finding “to extend the GHG regulatory program to new and existing stationary source performance standards and guidelines for power plants under CAA section 111.” Citizen groups have challenged the final rule in the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals. No assurance can be provided as to whether the rule will survive judicial challenge.
Pennsylvania RGGI. 
In October 2019, the then-Governor of Pennsylvania signed an executive order directing the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection (the “PADEP”) to draft regulations establishing a cap-and-trade program with the intent of enabling Pennsylvania to join the RGGI, a multi-state regional cap-and-trade program comprised of several Eastern U.S. states. In April 2022, Pennsylvania entered the RGGI program, with compliance set to begin on July 1, 2022. However, in November 2023, the Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania ruled RGGI was an invalid tax and voided the rulemaking. The PADEP appealed this decision to the Pennsylvania Supreme Court and filed notice with the court that the RGGI program would not be implemented while the appeal is pending. In July 2024, the Pennsylvania Supreme Court permitted certain non-profit environmental groups to intervene in the case. Oral argument in the case took place in May 2025. In November 2025, the Pennsylvania legislature passed a budget that included provisions requiring Pennsylvania to withdraw from RGGI. As a result, the PADEP filed an application to the Pennsylvania Supreme Court requesting to discontinue its appeal. The Pennsylvania Supreme Court granted the application and dismissed the case on January 6, 2026. 
81
Item 8. Table of Contents
EPA ELG Rule.
 In November 2015, the EPA revised the effluent limitation guidelines (“ELGs”) for certain power generation facilities, which imposed more stringent standards for wastewater streams as facility discharge permits are renewed. In 2020, the EPA issued changes that would exempt coal generation facility operators from meeting certain wastewater standards if the facility would commit to cease coal-fired generation by the end of 2028, which Talen elected for its wholly owned coal operations. In May 2024, the EPA published revisions to the EPA ELG Rule, which imposed additional requirements for legacy wastewater and combustion residual leachate. These revisions impact Talen’s active generation facilities that have both CCR units and hold National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (“NPDES”) discharge permits. These sites include Brandon Shores, Brunner Island, Montour, and potentially Martins Creek. Talen is evaluating what: (i) potential discharge limits may apply; (ii) treatment may be required; and (iii) the implementation timeline may be. Obligations for installing any new wastewater treatment equipment, if necessary, will not be known until each applicable state where the active generation facilities operate makes its own determination with respect to NPDES permit renewals with new limits and associated timing. As a result of the future permit conditions, additional capital expenditures and (or) AROs may be required, which may have a material impact on Talen’s operations and (or) financial condition. 
Multiple challenges, including stay requests, to the EPA ELG Rule have been filed in various U.S. Courts of Appeal by parties that include 
15
 states, environmental groups, and industry groups, including the Utility Water Act Group (“UWAG”), of which Talen is a member. The appeals have been consolidated in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, which denied requests to stay the rule in October 2024
. At the EPA’s request, the Eighth Circuit has held the consolidated challenges in abeyance since February 2025 to allow the EPA to reconsider the rule. In March 2025, the EPA announced that it will revise the EPA ELG Rule as part of its deregulation agenda while considering immediate relief from some of the existing leachate requirements.
 In June 2025, the EPA announced that it will issue a proposal in 2025 to extend compliance deadlines under the 2024 EPA ELG Rule and seek information to potentially inform further rulemaking. In September 2025, the EPA issued a direct final rule extending a short-term deadline and a companion proposal extending many compliance deadlines for the 2024 EPA ELG Rule and providing some flexibility relating to some deadlines in the 2020 ELG Rule. In November 2025, the EPA issued a notice withdrawing the direct final rule due to the receipt of adverse comments. The EPA finalized its proposal in December 2025. Among other things, the final rule extends zero-discharge compliance deadlines established in the 2024 EPA ELG Rule by five years from December 31, 2029 to December 31, 2034. The extension rule has been legally challenged by environmental groups. These challenges have been consolidated in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. UWAG has filed a motion to intervene in the consolidated litigation. In the final rule, the EPA also stated it is considering further rulemaking to revise the regulatory standards in the 2024 EPA ELG Rule. No assurance can be provided as to whether the EPA’s final rule will be challenged, when the challenges to the EPA ELG Rule merits will be resolved, or whether such changes and challenges will be resolved in the Company’s favor.
EPA CCR Rule.
 In April 2015, the EPA established regulations under the RCRA to identify CCRs as nonhazardous solid waste and provided CCR management and siting requirements. The 2015 rule was modified in 2020 after a 2018 D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals ruling found that, among other things, the EPA did not adequately regulate unlined impoundments. In its 2020 rulemaking, the EPA specified procedures for owners to extend the operating timeline of certain unlined impoundments. Talen submitted an extension request under this process for an unlined impoundment at Montour, which was withdrawn in December 2024, following the end of basin operations and the initiation of basin closure. The 2018 D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals ruling also found that the EPA did not properly address legacy surface impoundments in the 2015 CCR rule. As a result of the finding, in May 2024, the EPA finalized additional federal CCR regulations effective in November 2024 (the “Legacy CCR Rule”), which provided new requirements for legacy CCR surface impoundments and new requirements for other CCR disposal and management areas at active power plants (“CCR Management Units” or “CCRMUs”). This

[SOURCE: SEC 10-K Item 7 — MD&A (climate-relevant excerpts)]

